# Programming Assignment 3 - App with Unit Testing, bcrypt and cookies

## Get & setup the repository(assignment)

First clone the repository to your station <br>
`git clone https://github.com/PVNETEdu/Software-Engineer---Program-Assignment-3.git`

Be sure to add the base repository as one of your remote since I might update README <br>
`git remote add projectDescription https://github.com/PVNETEdu/Software-Engineer---Program-Assignment-3.git`

To keep updated to of the assignment, update your project <br>
`git pull projectDescription master`

Create a new branch with your name and start working <br>
`git checkout -b <your name>`

Check if you are on your branch <br>
`git branch`

First we need to install all of the npm dependencies run: <br>
`npm install`

To check everything worked well, go to localhost:3000 to check if you see the web page: <br>
`cd bin`
1. run: `node www` to run the server file
2. put: `localhost:3000` in the browser and check if you see web app works.

## Overview
For this assignment, we will try to take the cleaness and the structure of our software to a different level by using knex which provides a more organized style of code and much more efficient backend query rendering due to functional programming.

### Table of Contents
**[Files to complete](#files-to-complete)**<br>
**[Part One: Get Started](#part-one-get-started)**<br>
**[Part Two: Configure Mysql](#part-two-configure-mysql)**<br>
**[Part Three: write unit tests(OPTIONAL)](#part-three-write-unit-tests(OPTIONAL))**<br>
**[Part Four: Finish the app!](#part-four-finish-the-app)**<br>
**[Part Five: Commit and Submit](#part-five-commit-and-submit)**<br>

## Files to complete:
This project isn't like most of the previous projects you decide on what you want to do with the project.

## Part One: Get Started
You should import it to your IDE of choice WebStorm recommended. 

By default, your project should have no errors and contain the following root items:

**bin** - The folder that includes the starter code on starting server with the port number <br>
**database** - The folder that includes the knex migrations and the seeds. <br>
**models** - The folder that all the models which are the database functions. <br>
**node_modules** - The library for all of the npm packages. <br>
**public** - The public folder where the page elements like stylesheet, in page javascripts, and images can go to <br>
**routes** - The folders that have the index routes and user routes that we can use <br>
**test** - The folders that have the index routes and user routes that we can use <br>
**views** - The folder that contains your front-end engine <br>
**app.js** - The express app setup file <br>
**knexfile.js** - The knex configuration file. <br>
**package.json** - This is all the dependencies that NPM will look into when you install or delete packages<br>
**package-lock.json** - Describes the exact tree that was generated by NPM<br>

Please seek help from me or any course staffs if you are missing any of these files

## Part Two: Configure Mysql
Make a new database, make sure you put the database name into the `knexfile.js`

Look into `knexfile.js` file the mysql connection was already done for you! All you have to do is to fill in the username of your localhost mysql account, the password, and the database your tables are stored in.

After you have configured the mysql connection, run the following commands:
`knex migrate:latest`<br>

Please note: the database was designed for you like the previous homework, but go ahead and read through the assignment requirement, you are allowed to change the setup of the database if you want. However, if you don't feel like it, feel free to use mine. 

Make some initial rows in users and items table. use command `knex seed:make users` and `knex seed:make items`, look in the seeds folder under database/migrations
 go ahead and make your initial rows. Make sure that your seed file is made, your code will be graded based on the initial rows that you created in the seeds folder. <br>
`knex seed:run` will run the seeds<br>

Go to your database select your database, and run the `show tables` command to check if the users and items table are present. 

## Part Three: write unit tests(OPTIONAL)
NOTE: this step is optional

Write good unit test codes for all of your routers and models. Make sure your tests cover the edge cases. 
You can look at an example on how unit test works right here:
https://www.chaijs.com/ <br>
https://dev-tester.com/dead-simple-api-tests-with-supertest-mocha-and-chai/ <br>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9HdJ8P6GQI&ab_channel=Academind

Your test will be graded for style purpose meaning that you need to make sure that your test do not include spam and the test code you wrote is professional.

Of course, all of the tests need to be passed to get full credit here. I am not limiting how many tests you have to write for each function, as long as they are reasonable. 

## Part Four: Finish the app!
Today is an exciting day, because there is no starter code for you on how to design this app. All  you need to do is to have a login, signup, and a welcome page once logged in. 
* Make sure that you use Cookie to store the user information once they login. (Have the cookie expire in 3 hours). If this requirement is not met, you will be deducted 20% of your grade. 
* Make sure you use models to write functions of login, signup and such, if this requirement is not met, you will be deduct 30% grade for coding style. 

In this app, the only thing you are required to use is to make sure that your password uses bcrypt for password encryption and cookies to maintain the users' login in local storage. Use bootstrap to try your best on making the page look pretty.

Bycrypt was not installed so you would need to do it yourself using npm. 

This is the first time you build this app without much starter code, so grading will not be very harsh, but you do need try your best to eliminate as much bugs as you can. 

## Part Five: Commit and Submit
Once you have finished all the works and ready to submit your assignment, make a new pull request for merging into master and @ThomasLIARDJAVA me as a reviewee so I will know that your code is ready to be reviewed.

## Grading Breakdown:
* Functionality Correctness: 60%
* Coding Style: 20%
* Comments: 20%

# Grade:  /100
